TRT Terror????? god what a horrible name for a game

'Mary':
 - A banshee: This allows for lots of noise. Screaming in the distance, or a subtle sobbing closer than you might like. It also would allow for the player to see the human form of this creature, maybe off in the distance during the day, with hard to distinguish features, but to those who know Irish folklore they could pick it out as a banshee.

The main gameplay loop could be about having to take photos in the right place in order to trigger a memory cutscene for the player and Mary. The polaroid camera should provide a double function of needed to be taken out in order to get some edge over Mary (shows her footprints in the soil?) But when the camera is taken out in a specific area, the memory cutscene triggers, until the character takes a photo and it reverts back to night with this first photo being the point at which Mary really starts becoming aggressive. Applying a pressure to the player but showing them the way to progress the story by filling up a set number of empty photo spots in the map menu

I think I want the player to experience three loops around the trail at minimum. The first loop should be beautiful, this is the normal loop. The second loop is the horror loop. Hints really start coming at the start of the second loop, and through it progress into full on horror. The third loop should start with horror, but eventually switch to hints on how to defeat Mary

I thought of the Tahoe rim trail as the first loop hiking area. I think this has good potential too. Though toning the size down.
The main feature of this to me is the lake in the middle. It would at first provide good views and comfort to the player, which will later provide a contrast with the horror. I also think it could be good to have moments when the trail diverges from the river, which allows for thick trees to create a more oppressive atmosphere at twilight and night.

As for the primary game loop. The player starts out simply doing chores as a park ranger, or boy scout, or maybe a person who lost someone on this trail. They start in their camp looking at a photo with the player and another person, and an urn. The character then pins the photo to the map and puts it in their pocket. (The photo gets distorted and fucked up as time goes on) and is pouring their ashes into a waterfall that is flowing into the lake at the middle-point of the loop. I imagine sunset occurring around this point, creating a beauty to the moment of pouring the ashes. Either way the first loop should be at sunset.

Once the player finishes that first loop, they realize the parking lot is gone. Completely. (Potentially even replaced with some statue or relic, something to create a little mystery, but also serves as a respawn point if the player dies) The player can go off the trail, but just outside of it will be the first hints that they aren't alone in the forest, otherwise the hints are still hidden or *very* subtle. At this point it should be dusk. The sun is down but not all light is lost. I think it would be cool to make clouds in the sky glow a very pretty pink and orange around this point to continue the string of early beauty. The player wouldn't have much else to do other than continue walking. Though I think having some motivation keep them going would help. Maybe the character set up a camp that we started at that is still there but further down the trail.

At this point the player should be progressing through their second loop. Once the player reaches camp it would be neat if some things were out of place from where they first were. Nothing too extreme, but enough to where the player will notice and question it (not the character, I'm inclined to make the character silent unlike Firewatch) This should also be where a flashlight is laid, for the player to grab at the beginning or later. 

I imagine players first idea here will be to go to bed, so I might try and find a way to encourage them to do a normal backpacking night routine, where they want to make dinner and just go to bed. (This would be the first thing I would do)

POTENTIAL COMPLICATION - NOT SURE HOW ALL PLAYERS WOULD BEHAVE ^^^^^

This brings the idea of needing the player to go get water for dinner. To me the camp has to be further from the water, not just because they have to be in responsible camping, but as a horror element, if the only homely place in the story is choked by tall trees and darkness at night it would encourage the player to leave for more open areas, continuing the theme. During the player's first excursion from camp, they should be faced with more egregious hints. Still nothing crazy or dangerous, but not at all subtle something else is in the forest, and watching you. I could imagine this as either at camp or away from camp. Away from camp keeps a sanctity to camp that can potentially be leveraged in the future, where the safety is finally violated to scare the player. (I like this idea) Otherwise the camp is absolutely shredded and torn to pieces in order to encourage the player to leave.**

Assuming that camp is left intact: The player goes to get whatever they needed from away from camp (food or water), is shown the hints, then returns. Upon doing so I'd like to let them cook dinner and try and go to sleep (camp should still be regarded as safe) Maybe the player even succeeds for a bit, but is then woken up by a loud horrifying sound. 
	Upon further consideration of this idea, as much as I'd like to do the setup for a big scare, having camp be safe would likely make the player question why they are leaving camp after they wake up. If camp is destroyed when they get back from "the chore" they are encouraged to move on. Camp isn't safe. If camp stays safe there is no motivation to make the player leave.

When the player leaves camp, from some motivation after awaking or finding camp destroyed, they leave. The daylight cycle should now have rotated to either twilight or night. Twilight would be preferrable as it could be portrayed as extra dark, allowing for more horror before the player starts to regain control and the light starts coming back as the moon rises.

I think a good source of motivation for having the player leave their camp is an old 'abandoned' lodge in the woods that is now often occupied by people drinking or camping inside the lodge, treating it as a wilderness hotel (It will not be so pleasant for the player :) ) As the player hikes towards the cabin, they should see even more obvious signs of 'the creature' some of these signs should show danger. It's a threat. The thing that messed with camp is not just some wild animal, it's smart, and it does not like you.

Once the player gets to the cabin, they should find it open. There should be some signs of comfort, a smoldering fireplace, some beer bottles on the floor, maybe even a nice wooden shelf for sleeping, that would work well with a sleeping bag and pad. 

When the player gets here. If the player leaves the door open (and unlocked) Mary peers into the cabin and starts sobbing. When the player looks towards the door, all they will see are glowing eyes and the outline of a woman's head before it very quickly leaves